# Notes: Barriers in accessing data from Spotify

When accessing data from Spotify for research, there are several barriers. 
First, there is API Access Limitations. As the API has rate limits, researchers in different areas will/can access different music data based on where they are. If the music research is regarding world music, this can be a problem as the music data collected just in one area can be incomprehensive and biased. We should also not forget that Spotify can change its API. Over a certain, researchers might not be able access the same music data or features when Spotify changes its offerings. When the API changes, researchers may face issues in reproudcing or referencing from the past research to continue the studies. 

Moreover, not all data is available through Spotify. Some information such as geographic and demographic can be hard to find as listening history needs Spotify users’ consent in sharing their listening or searching history. This will make the analysis on the change of music trends somehow challenging. Talking about consent, this involves the considerations of data privacy and ethics. Privacy and ethics concerns can limit what music data can be accessed and how it can be analyzed. The users data is linked to personal preferences or emotions from their listening habits so researchers have to follow the ethical guidlines while doing the music related research. 

Lastly, in Spotify’s Terms of Service, the business has put various safeguards in place to guard against unauthorized access and unnecessary retention of personal data in the system. Therefore, the music data can not be used or redistributed without explicit permission, which can make collaboration on research challenging as it is possible that researchers will violate legal obligations while working on music dataset. 